# GM Agendas

1. Show the player the impacts of their previous decisions on their kingdom's people. You want to show how choices affect people's day-to-day. Ideally this is shown long-term, persistently and far after the player makes their choices. Even difficulties that appear to only affect the personal life of the ruler should likely have measurable affects on their people as their influence naturally spreads throughout their kingdom.
2. Try to never give dilemmas that have obvious binary choices. You want to encourage creativity in the player's decisions, so do your best to provide descriptions of the dilemma without offering options. Basically, avoid making your dilemmas into multiple choice tests. Focus the descriptions on the dilemma itself, leave the solutions to the player. The following consequences can be a collaboration between the GM and the player, each offering what kinds of ramifications they think the solution would put into motion.\*
3. Pay very close attention to scale, and try to keep it _big_. Lots of other games offer character focused stories, but Writ of Rulers is meant to offer players the opportunity to control something larger than a single character. Emphasize grandiosity at any chance; events in the player's kingdom should have over-the-top effects. If there is a flood in the kingdom, zoom away from the singular trees being knock over and talk about the miles of neighborhoods that were swept away. Even your in-game descriptions can do this: vast crowds, towering walls, stretched distances.

\*How do you ensure the player feels like a tactically capable ruler? In the inspiring fiction, a ruler is usually characterized by their proficiency in navigating politically complicated environments and their measurable ability to predict the consequences of their decisions, but in reality a player can easily make a decision that the GM thinks will ultimately harm the kingdom. If the game _never_ goes as the player expects it will (due to differences in opinion between the player and GM of what outcomes should spawn from any given decision), the player is right to become dissatisfied with the game and uninterested in participating. Is there a sweet spot between subverting expectations and honoring them that allows the game to continue to be engaging?
