# Advance Or Create An Agenda

*There are things that simply must get done. This writ enables rulers to manage any long running projects that the prosperity of the kingdom relies upon.*

With this writ, rulers will track and progress **agendas**, which are long term initiatives that the kingdom must undertake to achieve some end that will greatly change something within the kingdom, either among the people or to the physical landscape of the kingdom itself.  While most other writs focus on interactions with other kingdoms, this writ should be used to address internal concerns and obligations. Examples of agendas might be: “build a temple to the mountain goddess”, “rout out all the traitors from the palace guard”, or “stockpile grain for the coming winter”.

The structure of an agenda is one of multiple steps. If you are familiar with diminishing pool mechanics from other games, agendas will be very familiar. Each agenda will have a number of dice associated with it in something called a dice pool—whenever a ruler decides to advance an agenda, they will spend 1 writ to roll all the dice in the dice pool, removing any 1s or 2s rolled from the pool. A ruler must keep spending writs to roll the dice pool until all dice have been removed. When all dice have been removed from the pool, the agenda finishes and its effects are felt throughout the kingdom. This is meant to emulate incremental progress–each writ spent towards an agenda is work being done in the kingdom to finish out a major endeavor at the ruler’s command.

To create an agenda, first spend 1 write and decide on the project the agenda should represent. Just a few words, usually with some sort of action verb attached. Then, in conversation with the GM, rulers decide how long in world each agenda should take to complete–is it weeks, months, years? Knowing this number will help with the next task of assigning a number of dice to the agenda’s dice pool. Agendas that take longer require more dice– a number anywhere from 2-8 is reasonable, however rulers and GMs can discuss longer agendas if necessary.

Agendas carry over between rounds. Rulers can choose to spend their writs to advance their agendas or can ignore those agendas in favor of more pressing issues. Agendas don’t fail unless something else in the course of the game makes them irrelevant or the ruler decides to explicitly abandon them.
